hey Kevin Chris Myers here Central
Florida site fishing charters I'd like
to show you today is a technique used
for fishing up underneath docks mangrove
trees skipping them up underneath some
kind of structure or places that a lot
of fish hang out and you can't do this
with every bait and the thing that I
like to skip the most for skipping docks
and mangroves here in Florida is this
3-inch DOA Shrimp and just like skipping
a rock what you have to do is get the
tip of your rod and that lure parallel
with the surface of the water and bounce
it right across just as you would do
with a rock so you can imagine if you
took the rock and you started up here by
your head and you throw it down there's
no way it's going to bounce if you're
trying to skip a bait and you wind up
over your head like this you're never
ever going to get it to skip it's just
gonna bump down into the water and stop
right there so what we're gonna do is in
order to do this in order to get your
tip down near the water you're going to
have to reel up until you don't have
very much line outside your tip now
generally I keep a little more line than
this outside the tip if I'm making
longer casts but here we're really not
trying to make super long cast we're
trying to make short accurate casts
let's skip across the surface so I need
to reel in until I have a foot or less a
line outside my tip then as I make this
cast I'm using two hands I'm keeping the
rod tip and my bait pound off parallel
to the ground and I'm aiming for a spot
just out in front of the dock so it
skips across the surface and goes up
underneath there a lot of times as soon
as that thing stops it begins to sink
you're gonna get your bite which is why
you're gonna make need to make sure that
you got your line your finger on the
line you stopped it right away
get that bail closed so you can set that
hook if you get a bite so you have a
little bridge here with some water
underneath it try to show you what this
should look like when it works properly
so I got my lure reeled up I'm gonna aim
just outside this bridge I'm gonna skip
it up underneath into that shadow line
back there
sometimes you get one or two skips
sometimes you'll get a whole bunch of
them you can see it's getting well up
underneath there if I tried to do a cast
where ice raised my hand I ride up over
my head and I tried to get it up in
there you know it's just gonna plop that
plop down right into that water so it's
a nice you can see I'm putting very
little effort into this cast I'm just
barely flicking the tip of the rod skips
right up into that shadow line as soon
as I let that thing go my hand is right
here above the bale to close it right
away so I can be ready so here's another
application where this might come in
handy you can see over here we have a
shoreline with a little Bank on it and
if you're super accurate you can cast
and land right up on that Bank but if
you miss and you land up in the trees
got no way to get across here you might
not get your lure back something you can
do is use this skipping technique just
skip it up into the bank you use your
finger here to control exactly when you
want to stop and the skipping noise of
that bait across the surface a lot of
time gets those fish's attention and
makes them run over see what's going on
so here's a technique you could use I
wanted to get right up against that Bank
right up against those really bad the
little
piece of tree there I'm gonna skip that
bait right up into that shoreline I put
my finger on the line just when it
bounced that second time I made sure it
didn't keep on bouncing and bouncing
skip off the water up into that
vegetation so I always have full control
over when this is going to stop and I
could put it exactly where I want
skipped right up into that shoreline
instantly I'm flipping that bale the
second it lands
so in addition the docks and other
structures you might want to cast
underneath it works really well for
casting up the shorelines
so if you're fishing around some kind of
structure it's good for trees you can
use it for skipping up into lily pads if
your bass guy you got to have something
that's kind of small and light big heavy
lures just aren't going to skip very
well but I use 3-inch paddle tails on a
jig head skip really well you can even
skip some of the bigger plastics but not
quite as good so if you're looking for
something to get up under there pick a
smaller bait something that's light and
that will skim across the surface and
you'll find you'll be catching yourself
a lot more fish